JD for Data Scientist and Principal Data Engineer (#616)
madetech/handbook: roles/principal_data_engineer.md

# Principal Data Engineer

UK-based in Birmingham, Bristol, Glasgow, London, Manchester and Newcastle.

Please apply for this role at [www.madetech.com/careers](http://www.madetech.com/careers).

Our Principal Data Engineers enable public sector organisations to transform service delivery with data to improve society, for everyone. They provide our most senior data leadership and support to our clients and teams, build and manage key relationships with clients, manage data consultancy and delivery across one or more accounts, and support sales.

## What does the job entail?

At Made Tech we want to positively impact the future of the country by using technology to improve society, for everyone. We want to empower the public sector to deliver and continuously improve digital services that are user-centric, data-driven and freed from legacy technology. To do this we work alongside brilliant public servants to drive better decisions through data and automation.

> As a Principal Data Engineer you will work closely with our customers senior leadership to help inform their data strategy and to ensure our teams are delivering to a high quality and are aligned to our customers data vision. Working alongside delivery, client and other capability principals, you will help shape account plans and be responsible for delivering against them.

Reviewer: Minor structural stuff, plus I believe the current stance is to prefer "client" over "customer":

```suggestion
As a Principal Data Engineer you will work closely with our clients' senior leadership teams to help inform their data strategy, as well as ensuring our teams are delivering to a high quality and aligned to our clients' data vision. Working alongside delivery, client and other capability principals, you will help shape account plans and be responsible for delivering against them.
```

Working with Made Tech's leadership you will ensure our work with customers is aligned to our growth goals and you will play a pivotal role in identifying new opportunities and winning work. Running bid teams, supporting sales teams and developing new business is critical to this role.

> You will coach and support Lead Data Engineers to steer their team's towards success. You will also be responsible for hiring and line managing Lead Data Engineers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will coach and support Lead Data Engineers to steer their teams towards success. You will also be responsible for hiring and line managing Lead Data Engineers.
```

As a data leader within Made Tech you will be expected to maintain and grow your professional network. You will be expected to contribute to thought leadership, content and events and should have a proven track record of doing so.

## What experience are we looking for?

While we will look for you to have experience in these things, if you don’t have one of these don’t let that stop you from applying.

-   Working directly with customers and users    
-   Working within a technology consultancy
-   Shaping data strategy and approaches to quality, ethics and governance
-   Developing a data capability or function
-   Combining data science, analytics and engineering
-   Strong understanding of various architectures including data warehouses, data lakes, data lake houses and data mesh
-   Strong understanding of best practice DataOps and MLOps

> -   Up-to-date understanding of various data engineering technologies including Apache Spark, Databricks and Hadoop

Reviewer: I worry that from this point in the list, we're actually listing _more_ technical requirements than in our lead and senior roles - reckon we could trim a few here?

Author: The principal data engineer was from Jim. I guess the idea here is to have a principal with. enough technical background.

-   Strong understanding of agile ways of working
-   Up-to-date understanding of various programming languages including Python, Scala, R and SQL
-   Up-to-date understanding of various databases and cloud-based datastores including SQL and NoSQL
-   Up-to-date understanding of cloud platforms including AWS and/or Azure and their data offerings
-   Evidence of self-development – we value keen learners
-   Drive to deliver outcomes for users
    
## Optional experience

Don’t forget to mention any of the experiences listed below. While it’s optional, it’s all highly desired!

-   Central Digital & Data Office’s [Data Ethics Framework](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/data-ethics-framework/data-ethics-framework-2020)    
-   Leadership of a data capability or function
-   Working within an account or programme leadership team
-   Working within bid teams to win contracts exceeding value of £1m
-   Working with multidisciplinary digital and technology teams
-   Working within the public sector
-   Experience in hiring, forming and running teams

## Salary

The salary for this role is location dependant:

> Birmingham, Bristol, Glasgow, Manchester and Newcastle: £81,900+

Reviewer: Do you have access to the data practice financials doc? Taking a look, our current bands are 93,500 - 148,500 in general and 98,175 - 155,925 for London.

Author: Those were from Jim.

Reviewer: Just tripled-checked what we're offering to new candidates atm and those are definitely the old figures - probably just a mixup with an old template as it's using the previous format where we specifically mention each site, rather than just "UK" and "London and South East" weightings separately.
